(WIND HOWLING)
CAPTAIN: Raise the sail!
The wind is too strong.
Curse the luck!
A storm this time of year?
(GRUNTS)
Where's my Weatherworker?
Make haste, man. Calm these
waves before we go under.
What's wrong?
Captain, I can't
remember the names.
The true names of
the wind or the waves.
(GRUNTS)
What? Have you lost your mind?
MAN: Captain!
There's something above the
clouds! Ah!
Where is it?
(GASPS)
The Gods protect us!
(SCREECHES)
It's a dragon. What is it
doing out here?
Look! There's another one!
(SCREECHING)
(BOTH SCREECHING)
Dragons fighting?
That's impossible!
(PEOPLE TALKING INDISTINCTLY)
MAN: More than 2,000 sheep have
taken the fever in Enlad alone.
Half of them have died.
Seven hundred of the kingdom's
prize cattle have been infected.
So far we've lost 50 head.
Your Majesty, I've
received a report that
an infant on Taon has been
stricken with the fever.
(MEN CHATTERING)
Be silent.
If we lose our heads now, then
what will become of the people?
Seal off the affected areas to
stop the fever from spreading.
Summon every healer in the
kingdom to find a cure.
For those with the greatest
needs, send ample provisions.
Root, find out what's
behind this.
Majesty.
What about the drought
in the provinces?
We sent Weatherworkers,
but their spells had
practically no effect.
Soon we'll miss the date
for the spring planting.
Root, can you explain
it to me?
Why have these hardships
struck us?
I sense the light dimming,
Your Majesty.
The light?
The light of the balance
that sustains the world.
(PANTING) Your Majesty!
What is it now?
Dreadful news, I'm afraid.
Dragons, they have just
been sighted off the coast.
Dragons here?
MAN: Two, Your Majesty.
One of them was killed.
Dragons here, in the east?
I never dreamed
such a thing would come to pass.
In ages past,
dragons and men were one.
Those who lusted after
wealth chose
the land and the sea
and became men.
Those who cherished
freedom became
dragons and chose wind and fire.
Since then, dragons and men
have remained divided.
To hear the dragons
have been seen,
let alone fighting,
means the darkness that
threatens us
is rapidly approaching.
KING: Bring the ship's
captain to me.
I wish to hear more of this.
And, Root, I want you
there as well.
Majesty! Please.
- We'll get in trouble.
- I have to.
What is it?
I was wondering
if you have seen Prince Arren?
You see, he has not returned
since last night.
Prince Arren? Gone?
QUEEN: That's enough.
His Majesty is quite occupied.
Surely you can see that.
Forgive me, Your Majesty.
It's just that he's not himself
lately. We were worried.
That's absurd! Arren is
no longer a boy.
In fact, he's 17.
Please forgive this heedless
interruption, Your Majesty.
The people of Enlad deserve
your undivided attention.
Very well.
Sire.
I must tend to my
correspondence.
Yes, Your Majesty.
I'm seeing things.
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(GRUNTS)
(GASPING)
Arren!
(OARS CREAKING)
(WIND BLOWING)
(CRUNCHING)
Hmm?
(WOLVES HOWLING)
(GROWLING)
(SNARLING)
(GRUNTS)
(PANTING)
(WOLVES SNARLING)
So you are my death.
(WHIMPERING)
Are you all right?
(GRUNTS)
(EXHALES)
Ah, steady there, lad!
(GASPING)
Is this what you're looking for?
(SIGHS)
SPARROWHAWK: This is dangerous
country for travelers.
You were lucky this time.
You must be hungry.
It's not much, but you're
welcome to it.
Here.
So, do you have a name, lad?
My name is Arren.
Arren? That means "sword"
in Enlad, doesn't it?
Well then, you're a long
way from home.
How can you know that?
That blade you're wearing
was forged with magic.
I doubt that you have yet the
power to unsheathe it.
(GASPING)
- (WIND BLOWING)
- (SHIVERING)
What is it?
Nothing. Nothing at all.
SPARROWHAWK: Arren.
If you have nowhere to go,
you're welcome to come with me.
I doubt that our meeting here
was just an accident.
And I'd welcome
a companion on the road.
Arren! Are you coming?
I don't even know your name.
It's Sparrowhawk.
(EAGLE SCREECHES)
(THUNDER RUMBLING)
More ruins.
Farmers abandoning their land.
There's more to this
than just poor harvests.
Come, Arren. We should push on.
Excuse me, Lord Sparrowhawk.
Sparrowhawk will do. What is it?
Sparrowhawk,
where is it we're going?
Right now,
we're headed to the next town.
But where the road
takes us then,
I'm afraid I don't know.
(PANTING)
Are you getting tired?
No.
We're almost there. Come on.
There it is.
That is Hort Town.
(GASPS)
Are those people criminals?
No, they're slaves.
Here, people are goods
to buy and sell.
Trading in human lives.
Two guineas, gentlemen!
Do I hear two guineas?
- Two guineas!
- I have two guineas!
Do I have
three?
- MAN: Three guineas!
- Three guineas!
Sold to the gentleman
with the three guineas!
(COWS MOOING)
I've got no more room.
Why don't you try the stables?
SPARROWHAWK:
I'm sure you can make room.
I have gauzes from Sowl!
Silks from Lorbanery! Only
today!
MAN: Furs and felts,
beautiful woolens!
Is this some kind of market day?
No, lad.
- It's like this year round.
- (GROANS)
Silks and satins!
Canvas and fleecefells!
Oh, well, good day.
Looking for something unique?
Then how about this silk?
Lorbanery's finest.
Oh, feel it. Fine as a
mayfly's wing.
I don't have a wife
for such delicate gifts.
I need a cloak for my
young friend.
Hmm, a wizard without a
girlfriend, eh?
But I don't really need a cloak.
I'm fine.
Arren, you don't expect
to go about
dressed the way you are, do you?
And I suggest you hide
that sword on your belt.
WOMAN: If it's cloaks
you're wanting,
fleecefell from Gont.
The highest quality.
SPARROWHAWK: Four warp
strings to the finger width.
This is Andradean work.
On Gont, they're known for
using six or more.
- (GRUNTS)
- You used to be a sorceress.
Why disgrace yourself
- by selling fakes?
- (GROWLING)
Because people don't believe
in silly,
foolish tricks anymore.
Maybe my goods are
not what they seem.
But at least
they're something you can touch.
Not mere lies and air
like magic and sorcery.
Sparrowhawk.
ARREN: Thank you.
(CHUCKLES)
(GRUNTS) Let go of me!
Calm yourself, young master.
I have something.
This is especially for you.
It will open the door to bliss.
Here, try one.
What is it? What is this?
Hazia, My Lord. Ha-zi-a.
Take one.
Leave sorrow and fear behind.
No more sorrow or fear.
That's right.
You'll never again be
troubled with
the misery and suffering of
this world.
No payment necessary.
It's my pleasure.
Mmm...
SPARROWHAWK: Arren.
Is there something I can
help you with?
Hmm. This is your friend?
Mmm, perhaps you would
like to partake yourself.
I'm sure wizards have troubles,
too.
Yes, perhaps.
But none that your wares
could ever hope to reverse.
(GROWLS)
Save us from
the arrogance of sorcerers.
Oh, and I suppose
you have lost your powers, too!
Just know, hazia is not
something to flirt with, Arren.
Look!
Eating hazia brings with it
a feeling of euphoria,
but then the spirit
abandons the body
and wanders aimlessly
in the darkness.
And when it returns,
more and more hazia.
Until finally, death.
- (GAGGING)
- Arren, are you all right?
(PANTING)
Are you feeling better?
Mmm.
SPARROWHAWK: (SIGHS)
The wind is fresh up here.
ARREN: Something's not right
with this town.
SPARROWHAWK:
Not only this town, lad.
Farmers' crops are
withering away.
Their sheep and cattle
are sick and dying.
I've even seen people
who've lost their minds.
Do you think that
it's some sort of pestilence?
No. If that were true,
it would be a sign that the
balance was trying to
right itself.
But this? I fear that someone's
trying to destroy the balance.
And there's only
one creature in Earthsea
capable of creating
that kind of evil.
Only one.
Well then, are you feeling well
enough to return to the inn?
I'd like to rest up here
just a little longer.
Very well.
I'll be waiting. Be careful.
I will.
(EXHALING)
(GASPS)
Slave traders.
(PANTING)
So, you're a witch?
And an ugly one at that!
(LAUGHS)
(GRUNTING)
Won't fetch very much
with a face like that.
Just a few guineas, I suppose.
But we can still have a bit of
fun.
Ow! My finger!
(GRUNTS)
This little witch has spirit.
I think I'm going to enjoy this.
MAN: Who's there?
Make yourself known.
Well, well. What do
we have here?
Little boy.
Go ahead. Take him.
No hard feelings, boy.
Just following orders.
I'll make it quick.
- (GRUNTS)
- (LAUGHING)
Or maybe you would rather
be a slave, huh?
Beg for mercy!
(LAUGHS)
Oh! Change your mind?
Life is nothing to me.
So you want to fight, eh?
(LAUGHING)
(GRUNTING)
Draw your sword!
Now it's my turn.
(GRUNTING)
HARE: Uh-oh!
(EXCLAIMING)
Hold on, boy!
You don't care
what happens to the girl?
Go ahead.
(GULPS)
If you really want her that
much, you can have her.
- Come on, men.
- (MEN GROANING)
Are you...
WOMAN: Therru!
Therru!
Therru.
(SIGHS)
A bird.
- (THUMPING)
- (GRUNTS)
So, we meet again, little boy.
(GRUNTING)
Take him!
(GROANS)
He should fetch a good price.
- Don't be too rough with him.
- (ARREN GROANS)
(LAUGHING)
Take him away.
Look at this piece of junk.
(SCOFFS)
You couldn't give it away.
(LAUGHING)
(SIGHS)
MAN 1: Give it up, it's no use.
MAN 2: Quiet!
Silence! Or I'll feed you
to the hounds!
(SHOUTS)
Come on!
- Get moving!
- (ANIMALS BELLOWING)
What's going on?
I don't know. Move, you
lazy animals!
What the devil is wrong?
(EXCLAIMS)
Sparrowhawk!
We must go, Arren.
Can you stand?
(SIGHS)
What about the others?
I left no one bound.
What happens now is up to them.
(SNORTING)
I don't understand.
How did you find me?
When you didn't come back,
I scoured every corner of Hort
Town.
Finally, someone told me
they saw a boy taken by slavers.
I was left with no choice
but to summon a finding spell.
I'm sorry. I was foolish.
SPARROWHAWK: No, it
was my fault.
I shouldn't have left you.
Forgive me, Arren.
Who's there?
It's me, Sparrowhawk.
Sparrowhawk?
Someone's been hurt.
I'm sorry. It's very late.
Is it you, Ged? Come in.
He's asleep.
SPARROWHAWK: I'm sorry
to have taken your bed.
TENAR: He needs it more.
Here, this will warm you.
Ah! Thank you.
You haven't changed at all.
Hmm-mmm.
You're keeping well, Tenar?
I suppose.
Only it hasn't always been easy.
And for you?
Still wandering as before?
Ah, that was good.
It has been a long time.
It has.
As Archmage,
I've got no time to wander.
Not as I once did.
What brings the Archmage
so very far away from his home?
Ill tidings come from
every corner of Earthsea.
Things are desperately
out of balance.
Strength is ebbing
from the world
as if the sun's light
were failing.
And what about the art magic?
That as well?
Yes. It's as if our blood were
flowing out from our very veins.
TENAR: And you're looking
for the answer.
Yes.
(GASPS)
Oh, dear, we woke you up.
Come in. Don't worry.
This man is an old
and very dear friend of mine.
This is Therru. She's been with
me for five years now.
Call me Sparrowhawk. Please
forgive me for waking you.
Hawk.
Therru never speaks
to strangers.
You should feel very honored.
What is it?
Could she be?
(MOOING)
(MUMBLING)
(KNOCK AT DOOR)
GUARD: Lord Cob.
Enter.
Please forgive
this interruption.
I have bad news to report.
What is it?
I'm afraid some of our
slaves have, uh, escaped.
COB: I see.
You have lost
my precious merchandise.
Rest assured, My Lord.
We've recaptured most of them.
COB: And?
What about those who
still elude you?
We will have them soon.
We are scouring the countryside.
You're a fool.
Do you think you cannot
be replaced by another?
(GRUNTING)
Please. It was a wizard
who interfered.
A wizard with a scar
on his face.
- What's that?
- (GROANS)
A scar on his face?
(PANTING)
Sparrowhawk.
The Archmage pays me a visit.
Find him for me, Hare.
Or else...
I won't fail, My Lord. (PANTING)
I've waited a long time for
this, Sparrowhawk.
(CATTLE MOOING)
(FIRE CRACKLING)
Tenar. I brought the water in.
Where is she?
Tenar? Are you still asleep?
Tenar? Are you sick?
(GASPS)
What?
That girl!
(CHUCKLING)
That must've been a surprise.
I should've told you, dear.
I'm sorry.
Don't worry. Arren is
traveling with me.
You have nothing to fear.
He may seem a little wild at
times, but he has a good heart.
Good morning.
Uh, yes, good morning.
I'm not hungry.
- Therru!
- (DOOR CLOSES)
Did you sleep well enough?
How are you feeling now?
I'm feeling a lot better.
I didn't do anything
to that girl.
Of course you didn't.
Come, time for breakfast.
You'll need your
strength for plowing.
What plowing?
(PANTING)
Whoa! Whoa, there.
Getting blisters?
Huh? Yes.
Maybe we should rest for
a little while.
(INHALES DEEPLY)
Mmm, I love the smell
of new turned earth.
- But...
- Yes, lad?
I thought you told me that
you're a wizard.
I see.
You want to know why
a wizard would spend his time
working in the fields
like a farmer.
Isn't that right?
Yes.
Listen to me, Arren.
Everything you see
under the sun and stars
owes its very existence
to the balance.
The wind and seas.
The powers of earth and light.
All that these do is
well and
rightly done within the
equilibrium.
But now, men hold the power
to control the world.
Man must learn to do what
leaf and whale
and wind do naturally.
It is for us to keep
the balance.
Everything that exists
has its true name.
The power of magic is
nothing more
than the power to command
based on the knowledge
of the thing's true name.
But use that power irresponsibly
and the balance of the world
is easily damaged.
Spells should be made
only when absolutely needed.
TENAR: You two have been busy.
From the looks of things,
I'd say you've earned yourself
a decent lunch.
Are you feeling better now?
Here, you need to eat
well, Arren,
in order to regain your
strength.
Oh, uh, what about the girl?
Ah, you mean Therru?
Well, it seems that one of
our spring lambs has taken ill,
so she's busy nursing it today.
Do you want to change places?
No, I can do it.
How did it go?
That's all for today.
Well, dinner is nearly ready,
so wash up and come inside.
I'm going to put the ox
back in the stable.
Thanks, lad.
There, you should be
feeling better.
You just need your
mother's milk.
That's it.
(LAUGHING)
Good girl.
What do you want?
Oh, uh, nothing.
Why are you here? To hurt me?
Are you going to kill
this little lamb?
No. No, I was just...
(GASPS)
Go away! Get out of here now!
I despise anyone
who doesn't care about life.
Sorry.
Out of my way!
(SIGHS)
SPARROWHAWK: Let's eat.
It is so good having men to help
with the farm this time of year.
Even if it is the two of you.
I may not be much with a plow,
but I certainly know
how to handle animals.
(LAUGHS) That's right.
You used to be a goatherd,
didn't you?
What's wrong, Arren?
Is something bothering you?
No.
(ARREN GROANING)
What is this place?
(BUBBLING)
(GASPS)
(EXCLAIMS)
(COUGHING)
Come, Arren. This way.
Sparrowhawk?
(GRUNTING)
Come. Take my hand.
(GASPS)
Arren!
No! No! Let go!
(SCREAMING)
Arren!
(EXCLAIMING)
(SCREAMING)
SPARROWHAWK:
Arren! Wake up! Arren!
Arren! Wake up!
TENAR: What's wrong?
He had a bad dream, I think.
A dream.
Summer's almost here
and I need your help.
There's still
much of the field left to plow.
I'm sorry.
I have important
business, Tenar,
and I'm afraid it can't wait.
The great Archmage
and I still can't count on you.
Come now, Tenar.
Should you really be
taking Arren's horse?
If he asks, just tell him
I borrowed it.
He'll be better off
without it today.
Tenar, I want you to keep
a very close eye on him for me.
I give you my word.
I'll be back by nightfall.
And back to work tomorrow.
(SCOFFS) I certainly hope so.
Who was that?
He's not from around here.
Did you see that scar?
He must've come from
that woman's house.
She's a witch, you know.
She didn't fool me.
I've known it all along!
Yes, yes, I know.
She's a very peculiar one.
- And that young girl she keeps!
- (BOTH EXCLAIM)
Mark my words, that child is
bad luck to us all!
No! Don't say that out loud.
(WHISPERING)
You know what I think it is...
(GASPS)
Oh, who was that?
He's not from around here.
He's a friend,
- since you're so curious.
- (BOTH EXCLAIMING)
He's helping out
with the daily chores.
(BOTH LAUGHING NERVOUSLY)
Can I help you?
Uh, my child has a fever, ma'am.
I need a little more of
that healing potion again.
I see. Give me a minute.
What's wrong with you?
Why are you sticking to me?
I'm afraid!
(BOTH GASP)
BOTH: Spare us from evil!
- That's enough.
- (BOTH EXCLAIM)
Here, same as always.
If the child's not better soon,
come see me again.
Thank you, ma'am.
(BOTH LAUGH NERVOUSLY)
Uh, I was wondering...
(SIGHS) Yes, I know.
Pay me as soon as you're able.
Thank you, ma'am.
You're very kind.
(WHISPERING)
I'm telling you, she's a witch!
I hope she feels better.
(SOFTLY) And I wish there
were more
decent people in the world.
Therru has never hurt
another person.
(SIGHS) Well, at least the woman
looks after her own.
There's that.
And as for Therru,
her parents abused her
and abandoned her
on the side of a road.
They burned her.
That's how she got that scar.
(BLEATING)
(SNIFFLING)
Oh, what a frightful child!
My goodness! Did you
see her eyes?
(WOMEN EXCLAIMING)
Oh, please have mercy!
No one wants to buy
an old woman!
(BOTH SCREAMING)
You have nothing to
fear, ladies.
Perhaps you could even help me.
Seen any strange-looking people
around here?
I'd be grateful to you.
Very grateful.
(BOTH GASP)
There's a young one up
at Tenar's farm!
And another man
with a scar on his face!
- Tenar? Who's that?
- There's a witch...
- The witch!
She lives right up this road.
Up there!
Thanks, old hags!
(EXCLAIMS)
Wait! Where are you going?
Oh, you promised
- to pay us! Oh!
- Liar!
There it is! That's it!
(HOOVES POUNDING)
Hmm. What could that be?
(GROWLING)
Stop it! Get out of here!
Get out of here now!
You're looking very well, boy.
Didn't think I'd find you here.
(LAUGHS)
You swine! What are
you doing here?
Now, now, let's not fight.
I just want a word or two
with your wizard friend.
Get back.
Sparrowhawk's not here.
If you're hiding him here,
then you will regret it.
Why would Sparrowhawk
need to hide?
A man like you could
never be a threat
to the Archmage.
Mmm, sounds like she's
telling the truth.
All right, we'll be back.
Until then!
Animals. Don't come back!
Lord Cob will be most pleased.
(LAUGHING)
TENAR: So, that's what happened.
And neither one of you
said a word about it.
(EXHALES)
Well, I think we've
replanted most of it.
Let's go build the fence.
ARREN: (GRUNTS) Tenar?
Have you and Sparrowhawk
known each other
for a long time?
Yes, we have.
And it's been a very long time.
He's been a wanderer
as long as I've known him.
It's the life that
he's chosen for himself.
He does what he does
because he has to.
It's just what he is.
Then, at last, he became
Archmage,
the greatest wizard
in all of Earthsea.
You mean he's master of
the great house of Roke?
Yes. But many years
before he became Archmage,
he came and rescued me
and led me into the light.
(EAGLE SCREECHES)
One man, all alone.
He brought me out
of the Tombs of Atuan.
(PEOPLE CHATTERING)
Welcome.
Mmm. Don't get many
wizards in here.
Need a weapon?
I'd like to see that sword.
Can't vouch for this one.
Unusual detail and workmanship,
so I picked it up.
But it's rusted solid.
It's worthless.
(SNORTING)
You there, wizard!
Turn around!
Are you deaf? I'm
talking to you!
Look at me!
Ooh! You said something, sir?
Huh?
Oh, is there something
on my face, My Lord?
(EXCLAIMS) Stupid old man!
You! If you run into another
wizard with a scar on his face,
tell him the great Lord Cob
wants to see him right away!
Cob?
No, never heard of him.
He's not from where I come from.
Once he's lord of the two lands,
you'll hear plenty!
So don't forget it. (SCOFFS)
Yes, sir.
- I'll take the sword. How much?
- Well...
Wait a minute.
Your face!
Something wrong?
No. I suppose not.
What can you tell me about
this wizard Cob
that he spoke of?
Be careful, my friend!
Keep your voice down.
Cob's the only wizard in
these parts
who still holds on
to his powers.
He's not exactly
popular around here.
He lives in the fortress
outside of town.
I'd keep clear if I were you.
I never thought I'd find
you here, Cob.
TENAR: You're better at farm
work than I expected.
You hardly seem like a beginner.
ARREN: Thank you.
I thought that you might like
to stay and help awhile.
I'm sure Therru would like that,
too.
Well, I...
You don't have to
give me an answer right now.
But I hope you'll
think about it.
All right.
TENAR: Put the ox in the
stable for me.
Yes, Tenar.
I'm home, Therru.
Therru?
Where is she off to now?
Arren, I can't find Therru.
Will you go out in the back
pasture for me?
Tell her to come inside
before it gets dark.
All right.
Therru?
Therru.
(SINGING) Far, far above the
clouds soaring with the win d
A falcon flies alone
Silent as the sky
I hear his lonely cry
Never can he rest
I walk with you along
an empty, winding road
We're far from the ones we love
And never can return
Never can we see again
The countries of our birth
When will I ever find
a place to call my home?
Sadness circling like a
falcon in the sky
When will I ever find
a way to speak my heart?
To someone who knows
what it is to be alone
Far, far above the clouds
against the setting sun
A falcon flies alone
Silent as the sky
I hear his lonely cry
Never can he rest
I long to spread my wings
and fly into the night
Open this lonely heart
to one who understands
When will I ever find
a way to speak my heart?
a place to call my home?
Sadness and loneliness
A falcon in the sky
When will I ever find
a way to speak my heart?
To someone who knows
what it is to be alone
I murdered my father, Therru.
What?
I stabbed him and
then I ran away.
I don't understand.
Why would I do something
so horrible?
Did he do something bad to you?
No. My father was a great man.
But I am nothing like that.
I failed my father and I
failed myself.
And yet, sometimes I'm filled
with a rage I can't control.
It's as if there were some other
person hidden deep inside me.
I know you saw it, too.
You were right, Therru, when you
told me I don't belong here.
Oh, I didn't mean that...
No, you were right.
If I don't leave soon,
it will come here again.
COB: A woman?
HARE: Yes. She lives
past the marshes.
And you're sure
the Archmage is with her?
Yes, My Lord. He's been seen by
many in Hort Town.
My spies have confirmed
the sightings.
Splendid.
(INAUDIBLE)
Hmm, yes, My Lord.
Let's go, men!
(EAGLE SCREECHING)
A greeting from the Archmage.
Thank you, Sparrowhawk.
Therru! Arren! Supper is ready!
Where's Arren?
- I thought he was with you.
- Mmm-mmm.
Maybe he's just resting.
Therru, go see if he's up there.
He's not here.
Well, that's odd.
Where on earth did he go?
I'll look outside.
(GASPS)
Arren.
Goodbye, Tenar. Therru.
I guess it doesn't matter
which way I choose.
A dead end.
(GASPS)
(EXCLAIMS) It's here!
(PANTING)
(MOANING)
(KNOCK AT DOOR)
Someone's here. I hope
that's Arren.
Arren?
Sparrowhawk?
That's strange.
- (GASPS) What are you doing?
- (CHUCKLING)
You! What do you want?
If the wizard's gone,
then you'll have to do,
since I can't return
empty-handed.
- What do you mean?
- Tenar. What's wrong?
- Run, Therru, run!
- (GASPS)
What a pleasant surprise!
Didn't know we'd be meeting
again this soon, princess.
Leave her alone!
She's done nothing to you!
(GRUNTING)
Therru!
So, little princess, just
tell me,
where can I find that prince
of yours?
Watch those teeth of yours!
I need you to deliver
a little message for me.
Tell this to the wizard.
If he wants to see his
woman again,
he can find her at
Lord Cob's castle.
Take her away!
- Therru!
- Tenar!
Therru! Therru!
No! No!
Therru! Are you all right?
Therru!
Tenar! Let her out of there!
You stay right where you are
till the wizard gets back.
Behave, little princess.
- Lord Cob's waiting. Let's go!
- Hiayh!
Stop!
Tenar!
I'm sorry. I'm afraid that
he will be coming with me.
Be gone!
(GROANING)
ARREN: Where am I?
You'll be safe here.
The shadow can't follow you
into the castle.
You mean you saw it?
I know a bit of the art
magic myself.
And I know what you're
running from.
You made a very wise decision
to break free of that man.
What man?
Sparrowhawk.
That is to say, the Archmage.
Here, drink this. It
will soothe you.
What's wrong?
Trust me, it's not poison.
(SIGHS)
Now, lie still and rest.
The Archmage is more dangerous
than you can ever imagine.
No. Sparrowhawk is a good man.
When I needed him,
he was there for me.
Then tell me this.
Did you ever ask yourself
what it is he's seeking?
No.
Eternal life is the only
thing he craves.
Eternal life? What do you mean?
You see, the
Archmage stands
at the pinnacle
of sorcery.
Except that the secret of
eternal life
is beyond his grasp.
And yet, that is what
he covets most.
But as he covets,
so does he fear
another will discover it first.
That would be unbearable to
one so proud as the Archmage.
And what does all of this
have to do with me?
Because you
are the one who has been chosen
to receive the secret
of life eternal.
That's the reason Sparrowhawk
follows you,
because he wants to
kill you.
He wants to bring me death.
Arren, I'm asking you
to come with me.
I've already found it.
I found the door that
separates us
from the chasm between
life and death.
You see, we can open
that door together, you and I.
And together, we will
live forever.
We will conquer every
form of fear and suffering.
Fear and suffering...
Come with me, Arren.
The face of death is terrible.
I don't want to die.
Of course not. All you need to
do is tell me your true name.
Then you will finally possess
that which you most desire.
Come, your true name, Arren.
Tell me what it is.
(STUTTERING) Lebannen.
Now, I finally have you,
Sparrowhawk.
Hawk, where are you?
(GRUNTING)
Whoa!
(PANTING)
Hawk!
What's wrong, Therru?
It's Tenar!
They came and took her away!
They said for you to go
to Cob's castle!
Therru, what about Arren?
He's already gone!
He told me that it would come
if he didn't go away!
Cob's doing.
Therru, no need to worry.
I'm going there to help Tenar.
Wait here and I'll be back.
Here, I want you to take this.
Arren's going to need it.
Do not leave the farmhouse,
Therru.
Hee-yah!
Out you go.
- Move it!
- (GRUNTS)
Keep your hands off me!
Oh...
Greetings, Lord Cob.
We brought the woman, My Lord.
Just as you ordered.
Excellent work, Hare.
You've done well.
(LAUGHS) It was nothing.
The only pleasure I seek in this
life is to serve you, My Lord.
Out of my way!
Hey, watch your mouth!
Are you responsible for this?
What do you want with me?
Let me go now!
My apologies for the
harsh treatment.
I have pressing business
with Sparrowhawk.
You're a wizard,
isn't that right?
Wizards don't do this sort of
thing. You should be ashamed!
If you want him, go
find him yourself!
He's actually
an old acquaintance of mine.
I just thought it would be nice
to see him one more time.
So why bring me here?
To be the bait?
What are you planning to
do to him?
Women forever tax my patience.
Put her down in the dungeon.
My Lord. Do it!
Wait! Answer me!
I'm warning you,
if something happens to
Sparrowhawk, so help me...
- Arren.
- GUARD: Let's go!
Come with me, Lebannen.
I have something special
for you.
(DOOR CLATTERING)
In you go.
Make yourself comfortable.
Your wizard will be joining you
down there soon enough.
(LAUGHING)
This reminds me of the Tombs.
So many memories.
Sparrowhawk.
Cob, are you making
the same mistake again?
HARE: At ease!
Any sign of the wizard?
No, not yet, sir.
Hmm.
Oh, where is he?
It's him. All right, take
your positions!
Here he comes.
Don't miss him!
Now, men!
(ALL GRUNTING)
Let the gate be open!
Stop!
(GRUNTS)
That maggot tricked us!
Don't stand there!
Think of something!
Well, Cob, I'm here.
It's Sparrowhawk.
Show yourself to me.
I've been waiting for you,
Sparrowhawk.
Forever, it seems.
At least since I left you at the
border of the Land of Death,
Cob of Havnor.
They say you're the
Archmage now.
Congratulations.
I came, Cob. Now release Tenar.
You disappoint me, Sparrowhawk.
The great Archmage in all his
glorious power,
smitten by a woman.
I know that you used her
to lure me here.
What is it you want?
What do you think I want?
I haven't forgotten what
you did to me.
How you dragged me to
the gates of the Dry Land.
Have you forgotten
the reason why?
You twisted the Pelnish Lore
to mock and make sport
of the spirits
of the living as well
as the dead.
Isn't that enough for
you to repent?
You taught me an
important lesson
on the border of the Dry Land.
Now I know I can never
accept death.
So I gathered up every book
on ancient lore I could find.
I regret to say some of their
owners were not cooperative.
And what are you plotting now,
Cob?
I have succeeded, Sparrowhawk.
I've finally woven
the greatest spell of all.
The door between life and death
has been closed
since the beginning
of time itself.
But now I shall open it.
Opening the door is forbidden.
Have you finally gone mad?
Those with power better learn
to wield it with wisdom, Cob.
Would you destroy the balance
that sustains the world?
(CHUCKLES)
What rubbish.
The balance was gone long ago.
You would know that
far better than anyone else.
It was destroyed by man.
You think you can limit man's
desire? The desire for life?
Immortality will be mine.
I will exist between
time and death.
Cob, without the cycle
of death and rebirth,
there can be no life for anyone.
I am already beyond nature!
Sparrowhawk, there's someone
else here who wants to see you.
Arren! What are you doing here?
Lebannen! This man would
deprive you of eternal life!
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
(GRUNTING)
Arren! Did you reveal
your true name to him?
(PANTING)
I'm going to live forever!
I'm tired of living in fear.
Arren, life without
death is not life.
Don't you see? Refuse death
and you refuse life as well.
Liar!
(GROANS)
(CHUCKLES)
(WHIMPERING)
Listen to me, Arren.
No man nor any living thing
in this world
preserves their
life forever.
But only to man is it
given to know that we must die.
And that is a precious gift.
This life that is both
our torment and our treasure
was never meant to
endure for eternity.
Life is a wave on the sea.
Would you force the sea
to grow still to save one wave?
To save yourself?
(ARREN SOBBING)
Arren.
(GRUNTING)
You thought you made a fool of
me, didn't you, wizard?
There's more than one entrance
to this castle.
(GROANING)
Why? Why am I growing weaker?
COB: Coming here was another of
your blunders, Sparrowhawk.
Your powers are useless
in this place.
Now then, lock him in the
dungeon alongside his woman.
I will finish them tomorrow,
after they've tasted
pain and humiliation.
HARE: Yes, My Lord.
On your feet, chickenhawk!
(FOOTSTEPS APPROACHING)
(DOOR OPENING)
(GASPS)
(GROANS)
(GASPS) Sparrowhawk!
Sparrowhawk! Are you all right?
Sparrowhawk.
I'll be back for you tomorrow.
Say your goodbyes while you
still have time! (LAUGHS)
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
Sparrowhawk! Sparrowhawk!
Tenar...
How could they do this?
You're the Archmage, aren't you?
I'm sorry, Tenar. I just keep
getting you into trouble.
Stop talking nonsense.
(PANTING)
I'm not sure which way to go.
Arren?
Arren! Wait!
Arren! Cob's men came to the
farm and took Tenar away!
(PANTING)
Arren! Your sword. Sparrowhawk
told me to give it to you.
You want me to follow you.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
Tenar is being held a prisoner
inside that castle.
Sparrowhawk, too.
Sparrowhawk.
This belongs to you, right?
Sparrowhawk said you
would need it.
You've got to hurry.
They really need your help.
I cannot go any further than
this. You must go on alone.
Take the sword with you
and bring it to me.
I know you can do it.
What do you mean?
You're with me right now.
You see only a part of me.
I'm being held by a wizard
against my will.
But what are you?
Stay away! Get back now!
Stay back!
Arren's heart was
burdened with fear.
And that fear filled his heart
with desperation and darkness.
Fear of what?
In the end, the darkness stole
his body and ran away with it.
But something was left behind.
What you see.
Darkness cannot exist
without light.
Now the light that was left
behind wanders alone.
Like a shadow.
Shadow?
What you see before you
is just a shadow
that is searching for its body.
(GASPS)
Father...
You are Arren.
Don't worry. I'll be with you.
How?
By giving you
something precious.
I give you my true name.
Lebannen. Lebannen.
Lebannen.
(SIGHS)
(PANTING)
(GRUNTING)
(MEN LAUGHING)
That's him.
He should be ashamed
to call himself the Archmage!
Yes, but just don't forget
which wizard he was up against.
There is no equal in Earthsea
for Lord Cob.
Well spoken!
(ALL LAUGHING)
By the way, what's our little
friend up to, huh?
I hear that he shut himself
up in his room.
Arren really is here.
He's a lucky one, that boy.
Only somebody like Cob
would be sneaky enough
to steal the
wizard's apprentice.
Though there doesn't seem
to be
a whole lot of use
for him.
Ha, none at all.
When we're through
with the wizard,
we're just going to have to
sell him into slavery again.
(COUGHING)
(GRUNTS)
All right! Go down and get
Sparrowhawk and his woman.
I'm afraid the great Archmage's
time has finally run out.
ALL: Yes, sir!
They're really going
to kill them.
(PANTING)
Arren!
Arren?
What are you doing here?
Did they kidnap you, too?
Here. I think this
belongs to you.
I'm not worthy of my
father's sword.
Arren, they've got
Tenar and Sparrowhawk.
They said they're going
to kill them.
So, please! Help them like that
time you helped me.
I can't help them. I can't help
anyone. All I can do is fail.
Arren, what's wrong with you?
They're both going to die
if we don't do something.
Don't you care? I said they're
both going to die.
(EXHALES)
We'll lose the most important
thing in the world.
ARREN: Therru?
(GASPS)
What is the most important thing
in the world?
(SNIFFLING)
You know life is what's
most important.
We're all going to
die someday,
so nothing we do now
really matters.
Why should we fight to
preserve life
when we know it's just going
to end someday?
No! Life is precious because
we know we're going to die.
Death isn't what you fear
most, Arren.
You're afraid of being alive.
You want to live forever,
then you say nothing matters.
But you're afraid to live.
You're afraid to live
the only life you have.
Therru.
You think your life
belongs to you?
Tenar gave me my life.
That's why I have to live.
So that I can give life
to someone else.
- Lebannen.
- (GASPS)
That is the only way we
can live forever.
Therru, how do you know
my true name?
You told me yourself.
Now, I will tell you mine.
My true name is
Tehanu. Tehanu.
Tehanu.
(ROARING)
It'll be light soon.
Come on, Therru.
We've got to help them.
Arren, wait.
- What is it?
- Over there!
Sparrowhawk and Tenar!
Come on!
Jump!
I can't. It's too far.
Don't worry, you can do it.
(GRUNTS)
Let's go.
Sparrowhawk!
Time to say goodbye,
Sparrowhawk.
Your lover is about to
take a little journey.
Why don't you send him
off personally?
(GRUNTS)
Sparrowhawk, you don't
need to worry.
This world will be left in good
hands while you're gone.
What can I do, Sparrowhawk?
SPARROWHAWK: Tenar.
It's not over just yet.
The sun will rise soon.
What do you mean?
Can you not hear that, Tenar?
Help is already with us.
That is more than
enough time for goodbyes.
Now do it. Finish him off.
ARREN: No!
Let them go right now.
Lebannen.
Arren! Therru!
Careful, boy. Stay out of this.
Show him no mercy!
Get back.
- Take him!
- (GRUNTING)
(EXCLAIMS)
(GROANING)
Please, don't hurt me.
Don't hurt me.
What a pity.
And here I thought
you and I had an understanding.
Enough! You don't
control me anymore.
Then you shall see
the face of death, Lebannen.
(GROANS)
It's a summoning spell.
(GRUNTING)
- Arren!
- Stay back.
Die!
(GRUNTING)
Please, let me do this.
Let me draw it.
I do this for life.
(GRUNTS)
That sword. That sword was
forged with magic.
(YELLS)
(SCREAMS)
(GASPS)
(WHIMPERING)
He's become an old man.
Kept alive only by sorcery.
Lord... Lord Cob!
(SCREAMING)
You cannot stop me.
I will never accept death.
Wizards are not supposed
to fear death.
You miserable girl.
I am far superior to you
insignificant little worms.
I have studied the
wisdom of the ages.
I wield power! I am almighty!
The wizards of Roke scorned
me like some witless fool.
They drove me out like a dog.
(LAUGHS)
But now,
I will have my revenge on them.
I'll never die and
I'll be Archmage.
(BOTH GASP)
(SCREECHING)
(SCREAMING)
Therru!
ARREN: Therru!
(CHUCKLES) That little fool!
Hear my command, stones.
I unbind you!
(LAUGHS)
(GRUNTS)
Sunrise.
(GASPS) Let me go!
(GRUNTS)
(LAUGHING)
Does it hurt, girl?
Cob!
Let her go! Now!
Stay where you are.
Death is quite terrifying.
Don't do it.
(LAUGHING)
Quite, quite.
Therru!
(GRUNTING)
Quite, quite, quite terrifying.
Listen, Cob.
You and I are just the same.
You turn your eyes away from
light to see only darkness.
No! Keep away!
You seem to have forgotten
that all life is connected.
Life can't be hoarded,
it can only be given.
Deny death and you deny life.
You're wrong.
You have to face the truth, Cob.
Everyone fears their
own mortality.
No! I...
never want to die.
Cob!
No! Stop it!
- Therru!
- (RUMBLING)
Therru. Arren.
Arren!
(GRUNTING)
(GASPS)
(LAUGHING)
Time to die! Time to die!
Arren! (GRUNTS)
And you will join him now.
Let her go! Don't kill her!
(GRUNTS)
Anyone who gets in my
way must die.
(GRUNTING)
(GASPS)
She's dead, she's dead.
Poor thing.
Sun is rising.
(BREATHING HEAVILY)
Hurry, must hurry.
- THERRU: Stop!
- (GASPS)
(GASPS)
Therru.
Eternal life.
Shadow, return to darkness.
Give me life.
I want life!
Got to live!
I want to live!
(SCREAMS)
(GASPS)
Tehanu!
It's good to see you,
old friend.
And what about them?
They'll be just fine.
You see, they have wings.
(SIGHS)
Thank you, Therru.
I'm returning to Enlad
to answer for what I did.
So I can finally face myself.
Arren.
I was hoping that
I could see you again someday.
Hmm.
Come on. We have to go
thank Sparrowhawk and Tenar.
(SINGING IN JAPANESE)
The lone hawk in the sky
Struggles against the wind
Here there is only light
And darkness
He has the sky to himself
You who looked up
To the sky and wept
You who lives alone
Let me hear your True Name
For one day you'll be gone
As light dissolves into darkness
Your song passes
straight through my heart
Let me sing it for you
The End
(CONTINUES SINGING)